feat: 32-bit Linux blog post (#2232)
electron/electronjs.org: data/blog/linux-32bit-support.md

---
title: Discontinuing support for 32-bit Linux
author: felixrieseberg

> date: '2019-03-15'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: '2019-03-04'
```

---

> The Electron team will discontinue support for 32-bit/i386 Linux starting with Electron v4.0. The last version of Electron that supports 32-bit based installations of Linux is Electron v3.1, which will receive support releases until Electron v6 is released. We will continue to support 64-bit based Linux (x64).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Electron team will discontinue support for 32-bit/i386 Linux starting with Electron v4.0. The last version of Electron that supports 32-bit based installations of Linux is Electron v3.1, which will receive support releases until Electron v6 is released. Support for 64-bit based Linux (x64) will continue unchanged.
```

_(minor)_ Use the passive voice in the final sentence.

> The Electron team will discontinue support for 32-bit/i386 Linux starting with Electron v4.0. The last version of Electron that supports 32-bit based installations of Linux is Electron v3.1, which will receive support releases until Electron v6 is released. We will continue to support 64-bit based Linux (x64).

Reviewer: For reference, because I have to deal with this a lot in tooling:

* 32-bit: Node/Electron use `ia32`, Debian-based distros use `i386`, RPM-based distros use `i586` or `i686`.
* 64-bit: Node/Electron use `x64`, Debian-based distros use `amd64`, RPM-based distros use `x86_64`.

Reviewer: Basically, what I'm saying is that we need to be consistent with which technology's terminology we use. I would suggest using both Node and Debian verbiage, because Ubuntu has the user share, and because we use Node terms in the tooling.

Reviewer 2: @malept should we just drop the `(x64)` parenthetical in this paragraph?

Author: That might be the easiest thing to do.

Reviewer: There's also the `i386` reference. The other option is to just replace `i386` with `ia32`.

Until now, Electron has provided and supported builds that run on the older 32-bit architecture. From release v4.0 onwards, the Electron team will no longer be able to provide binaries or support for 32-bit Linux.

Electron has always been a vibrant open source project and we continue to support and encourage developers interested in building Electron for exotic architectures.

## What does that mean for developers?

If you are not currently providing 32-bit distributions of your app for Linux, no action is required.

> If you are building a cross-platform application using Electron and are currently providing 32-bit distributions of your app for Linux, we recommend that you too drop support for 32-bit Linux installations. No changes are required to your application's code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Projects which ship 32-bit Linux Electron applications will need to decide how to proceed. 32-bit Linux will be supported on Electron 3 [until](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions) the release of Electron 6, which gives some time to make decisions and plans.
```

This suggestion removes "we recommend that you too drop support" because that phrasing was harsh and because it feels slightly inappropriate to tell downstream what to do.

## What does that mean for users?

> If you are a Linux user and not sure whether or not you're running a 64-bit based system, you are likely runnong on a 64-bit based architecture. To make sure, you can run the `lscpu` or `uname -m` commands in your terminal. Either one will print your current architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are a Linux user and not sure whether or not you're running a 64-bit based system, you are likely running on a 64-bit based architecture. To make sure, you can run the `lscpu` or `uname -m` commands in your terminal. Either one will print your current architecture.
```

_(minor)_ spelling fix

> If you are a Linux user and not sure whether or not you're running a 64-bit based system, you are likely runnong on a 64-bit based architecture. To make sure, you can run the `lscpu` or `uname -m` commands in your terminal. Either one will print your current architecture.

Reviewer 3: typo: "runnong" --> "running"

> If you are a Linux user and not sure whether or not you're running a 64-bit based system, you are likely runnong on a 64-bit based architecture. To make sure, you can run the `lscpu` or `uname -m` commands in your terminal. Either one will print your current architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a Linux user and not sure whether or not you're running a 64-bit based system, you are likely running on a 64-bit based architecture. To make sure, you can run the `lscpu` or `uname -m` commands in your terminal. Either one will print your current architecture.
```

Reviewer: 😆 the downside of GitHub's current review workflow: three people making the same suggestion without notifications that it's been done already

> If you are using Linux on a 32-bit processor, you have likely already encountered difficulties finding recently released software for your operating system. The Electron team joins other prominent members in the Linux community by recommending that you upgrade to a 64-bit based architecture.

Reviewer 2: This is a harsh closing sentence but TBH I'm not sure what I'd change it to
